The President:
As the Winter Olympics draw
to a close this weekend,
I just want to take a minute to
congratulate all the athletes
who competed in these games.
And I especially want to say
how proud I am of all that the
American men and women have achieved over the last few weeks.
Whether it was the men's hockey
team's stunning upset of the
Canadians on their way
to the gold-medal game,
or Lindsey Vonn's heroic gold-medal comeback from a shin
injury, or Apolo Ohno becoming the most decorated American
winter Olympian of all time, you can't help but be inspired by
the sheer grit and athletic prowess on display in Vancouver.
And it's not just the medal
count that's inspiring --
though we've certainly
done great on that score.
What's truly inspiring is the
character of the men and women
who have won those medals.
The sacrifices they've made.
The integrity they've shown.
The indomitable Olympic spirit
that says no matter who you are
or where you come from or what
difficulties you may face,
you can work hard and train hard
and still triumph in the end.
That's why we watch.
That's why we cheer.
That's why in the middle of an
extremely challenging time for
America, we've been able to come
together as one nation for a few
weeks in February and swell with
pride at what our citizens have achieved.
Now, when it comes to meeting
the larger challenges we face as
a nation, I realize that finding
this unity is easier said than
done -- especially
in Washington.
But if we want to compete on the
world stage as well as we've
competed in the world's games,
we need to find common ground.
We need to move past the
bickering and the game-playing
that holds us back and blocks
progress for the American people.
I know it's possible to do this.
And we were reminded of that
last week when Democrats and
Republicans in the Senate came
together to pass a jobs bill
that will give small businesses
tax credits to hire more workers.
We also saw it when Democrats
and Republicans in the House
came together to pass a bill
that would force insurance
companies to abide by
common-sense rules that prevent
price-fixing and the other practices that drive up health care costs.
We need that same spirit of
cooperation and bipartisanship
when it comes to finally passing
reform that will bring down the
cost of health care and give
Americans more control over
their insurance.
On Thursday, we brought both
parties together for a frank and
productive discussion
about this issue.
In that discussion, we heard
many areas of agreement.
Both sides agreed that the
rising cost of health care is a
serious problem that plagues
families, small businesses,
and our federal budget.
Many on both sides agreed that
we should give small businesses
and individuals the ability to
participate in a new insurance
marketplace -- which members
of Congress would also use --
that would allow them to pool
their purchasing power and get a
better deal from
insurance companies.
And I heard some ideas from
our Republican friends that I
believe are very worthy
of consideration.
But still, there
were differences.
We disagreed over whether
insurance companies should be
held accountable when they deny
people care or arbitrarily raise premiums.
I believe they should.
We disagreed over giving tax
credits to small businesses and
individuals that would make
health care affordable for those
who don't have it.
This would be the largest middle
class tax cut for health care in
history, and I believe
we should do it.
And while we agreed that
Americans with pre-existing
conditions should be
able to get coverage,
we disagreed on how to do that.
Some of these disagreements
we may be able to resolve.
Some we may not.
And no final bill will include
everything that everyone wants.
That's what compromise is.
I said at the end of Thursday's
summit that I'm eager and
willing to move forward with
members of both parties on
health care if the other side is
serious about coming together to
resolve our differences
and get this done.
But I also believe that we can't lose the opportunity to meet
this challenge.
The tens of millions of men and
women who can't afford their
health insurance -- they can't wait another generation for us to act.
Small businesses can't wait.
Americans with pre-existing
conditions can't wait.
State and federal budgets can't
sustain these rising costs.
It's time for us
to come together.
It's time for us to act.
It's time for those of us in
Washington to live up to our
responsibilities to the
American people and to future generations.
So let's get this done.
And thanks for listening.